
@timplyming

Panel 1
@timplyming
@dr_bob82
@YemisiOgunleye
@lyramckee
@MayaGoodfellow
@janeoconnor100

@abridgetv
@farazosman
@adambiddle



SUMMARY
Today we learned that Tim Plyming is older than he looks - and he doesn't work in tech support.
  Any more.

Tim spoke of a whole range of organisations - from the British Museum to Waitrose, from Alfa Romeo to NatWest - who are now content publishers. Our media graduates are now just as likely to work in places like Manchester United as they are at ITV or Trinity Mirror.

He also uttered the unforgettable words:
"Mary beard spoke extensively about penises"

Lyra McKee and Maya Goodfellow highlighted the challenges of finding black, muslim or working class voices in the media, and ways that we can start doing that, by laying the foundations when the 5pm deadline isn't on our backs, while Yemisi Akinbobola talked about both the promise and risks of hashtags helping to throw a spotlight on under-reported issues and events.

And you'll never believe what the panel said about clickbait

Despite starring roles as a child in Hannah Montana and ET, Jane O'Connor is now a well adjusted adult.

And Dr Robert Lawson highlighted the fact that I've just constructed a convenient narrative that simplifies everything Lyra, Maya and Yemisi just said.

We had lunch. You probably had an interesting conversation - you should tell me about it some time.

We learned that 3 people in this room knew what sociolinguistics was. Hello.

Linda Davidson kicked off the afternoon panel with a video from 1966 - I realised that if AI was around in 1966 we'd now all be waiting for it to ask our husbands to sign off our Amazon orders.

[RIFF ON ALGORITHMS AND THE AGE OF BUILDING THOSE]

Jonathan Griffiths imagined what VR might be in the early 90s. Today, almost 3 decades later, he was able to find out from Adam Biddle that it was pointless because no one is talking to each other with VR goggles.

Although Faraz Osman offered some hope in the form as he looked forward to VR's killer app
  ...as long as it isn't Avatar.

Meanwhile Adam Biddle was busy setting up fights, between the self and the selfie and between PR and social media
"PR is about protecting reputation whereas social media is about creating reputation"

Well it's almost 5pm and Lyra McKee's editor is now asking her to get a story by then. So I'm off to find some easily accessible authorities who are articulate and never had problems with social mobility.

Enjoy the drinks.  





Faraz Osman
The general public don't need to know about AR kit, they need to know about the killer app that's going to make me part with my money
Everybody's chasing the
VR is the next HD flatscreen or mobile touchscreen
3D TV

Robert Sharl said that universities should no longer be trying to follow industry, but can lead in new areas.

At the start of a revolution which will change media enormously
"They don't say things are on air any more, they say things are 'available from midnight', points out @timplyming"
"Mary beard spoke extensively about penises"
Grossed about half a million, cinemas kept around half

"British Museum is on a journey to becoming a content company" - @timplyming, #Rethink2017
"Waitrose understand that if you're a supermarket you're a content company as much as a retail company"
Alfa Romeo worked with Guy Martin
Burberry have built up well over 1 million concurrent users viewing live events - viewers can now order what they are watching on the catwalk
Content is at the heart of their operation
Matalan TV partnership with ITV
NatWest said if we were to create general lifestyle content around money what would that look like - 10 minute monthly youtube channel Money Bite
Insights from data is something people are either going to learn how to do, or be dead - House of Cards was based on data about appeal of stars and story
9 different versions of trailer were created, personalised to you
Down to the Pantone
Amazon do all the things Netflix do, down to piloting shows
A couple of spaces to watch:
Masterclass launch in US: buy a lifelong subscription to service that brings you high end teaching on a variety of subjects, e.g. David Mamet on dramatic writing. Numbers are extraordinary.
Those that realise the opportunity to bypass the traditional broadcasting model and address the audience directly will benefit

"On November 2003 a group of extremists attacked our campus," @YemisiOgunleye. "But the worst thing is that it never made it into the national news"
FF to 2014 when 200 girls were kidnapped by Boko Haram
It was not until #BringBackOurGirls trended that it made the global news agenda.

IDP camps
Are hashtags like #BringBackOurGirls good? Yes of course they are - until they become a tool of politics
A strong image and a hashtag that brings people together is only ever the beginning - we have a choice whether to dig deeper into the complexities

Just 0.4% are muslim
0.2% are black

"Extreme politicians like Trump and Le Pen are glamourised or normalised in a problematic way" - @MayaGoodfellow

If we're going to give some balance there should be space for those affected by political discourse to have a voice

#rethink2017 "If we're going to have balance there should be space for those affected by political discourse to have a voice" - @MayaGoodfellow

The reporter isn't tasked with getting the truth - they're tasked with getting the truth they can find by 5pm. That leaves them open to manipulation by PR, and makes it harder to find excluded voices

Some officers had been accused of sexual assault two or three times, but no one in the press followed up because the complainants were not treated seriously - @lyramckee

Experience in airport: The first British muslim to go into space - was harassed, and we were harassed because we were with him.

Working class people cannot speak in soundbites, middle class people are able to make a case for themselves

When you need a story by 5pm often it's the quote from the politician and not the person affected that is easiest to use

6 people know what sociolinguistics is

We learned that Corbyn lost but somehow won, May won but somehow lost, SNP won in Scotland but somehow lost
How is truth packaged up, presented and consumed

I've seen too many conferences and special editions of journals that are all white and all male

A panel like today is evidence of what can be achieved when people work together, and the media needs to wake up to that


If there is a solution it's not going to be a quick one - Lyra McKee
Gradually introducing those voices to your coverage so when you need that voice by 5pm they're already in your contact book

There is a narrative here about how minority voices can embed themselves in social media


Journalists themselves need to be a force for change - Dr Robert Lawson. I've spent half an hour speaking to journalists distilled to one line which is inaccurate.

We've had a very big serious intervention in diversity with the BBC which hasn't done enough, and we're living with the consequences of it now

I'm not convinced that the business models are going to be changed quick enough to have an impact on this issue. Can the licence fee be used to do something more. I think the BBC has failed in this area.

Citizen journalism is where you are seeing some of the most dynamic journalism in the UK


Is it time that we consider that the requirement for impartiality and balance is extended to everyone and not just broadcasters? - question from BBC reporter in the audience

They just lie, and the corrections come too late - Maya

Facebook is under none of the regulations that broadcasters are, and this will have to be dealt with - Tim

## Panel 2

Linda Davidson - BBC Online, C4,
The inability for us to transcend
Ethnic minorities, women, those stories just weren't being told.
The use of data was really interesting because we were using it to start predicting what you liked to watch and predict what you might want to watch, when and where
@abridgetv

I was the only woman, they were all Oxbridge educated, not one had had a social mobility issue
I started to think about AI layer we were using as predictive modeling and how we are asking our AI questions. AI is logical but we are illogical
Far from it being this wonderful way of uncovering stories, this notion of unconscious bias has captured my imagination

Adam Biddle
The self vs the selfie
More and more we're losing touch with ourself
100% of people will have taken a picture of ourself and not put it on Instagram because it's shit
The disruption it's having on ourselves which we're not
If there was a billboard which could read a third of the world wouldn't everyone want to be on it?
VR is pointless because none of you use it to communicate with friends

PR is about protecting reputation whereas social media is about creating reputation


Faraz Osman
C4 is a TV channel
TV was becoming less and less important
It's becoming more and more rare for TV to be only about video content
Music cracked online before everyone else.

Jonathan Griffiths imagined what VR might be in the early 90s. Today, almost 3 decades later, he was able to find out from Adam Biddle that it was pointless because no one is talking to each other with VR goggles.
